README.md, before:

# Algorithms 1

[Coursera Algorithms I](https://www.coursera.org/learn/algorithms-divide-conquer/home/welcome), implemented in Go.

## Week 1: Divide and Conquer

Covers merge sort, Karatsuba's integer multiplication, basic O-notation analysis.

### [Mergesort](https://github.com/nikovacevic/algorithms1/blob/master/mergesort/mergesort.go)

`Sort` returns the array (`O(1)`) in the base case. It recursively calls itself twice for each non-base-case call. This can happen at most `log n` times before each recursive call reached the base case.

`merge` that returns an array of length `l` will run in `O(l)` time, given that one instance of constant-factor comparisons and element copying is required for each element. We ignore constant factors to get `O(l)`.

Given that `merge` will be called at most `log n` times, and `n` (number of elements in the original array) is an upper-bound on `l`, we can say that the entire process has an asymtotic upper-bound of `O(n log n)`.

### [Karatsuba multiplication](https://github.com/nikovacevic/algorithms1/blob/master/multiplication/multiplication.go)

`Karatsuba` acts as a wrapper function, executing some low-factor (`O(n)` or `O(1)`) helper functions to pad the input to `karatsuba`, which does the recursive work.

`karatsuba` can be modeled with the following recurrence relation:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + 2A(n/2) + A(n) + S(n)
```
where `A(n)` represents `add` and `S(n)` represents `sub`. First, we will analyze the non-recursive bit:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + f(n)
  where f(n) = 2A(n/2) + A(n) + S(n)
  and   A(n) = Θ(n)
  and   S(n) = Θ(n)
therefore f(n) = Θ(n)
```
Using the [Master theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_theorem), we state the following:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + f(n)
  a = 3
  b = 2
```
If there exists `c` such that `f(n) = O(n^c)` where `c < log_b(a)`, then `T(n) = Θ(n^log_b(a))`
```
Given f(n) = Θ(n), choose c = 1
Then, f(n) = O(n)
  where 1 < log_2(3)
therefore T(n) = Θ(n^log_2(3))
```

Commit message:

Updated README for inversions analysis.

README.md, after:

# Algorithms 1

[Coursera Algorithms I](https://www.coursera.org/learn/algorithms-divide-conquer/home/welcome), implemented in Go.

### [Mergesort](https://github.com/nikovacevic/algorithms1/blob/master/mergesort/mergesort.go)

`Sort` returns the array (`O(1)`) in the base case. It recursively calls itself twice for each non-base-case call. This can happen at most `log n` times before each recursive call reached the base case.

`merge` that returns an array of length `l` will run in `O(l)` time, given that one instance of constant-factor comparisons and element copying is required for each element. We ignore constant factors to get `O(l)`.

Given that `merge` will be called at most `log n` times, and `n` (number of elements in the original array) is an upper-bound on `l`, we can say that the entire process has an asymtotic upper-bound of `O(n log n)`.

### [Karatsuba multiplication](https://github.com/nikovacevic/algorithms1/blob/master/multiplication/multiplication.go)

`Karatsuba` acts as a wrapper function, executing some low-factor (`O(n)` or `O(1)`) helper functions to pad the input to `karatsuba`, which does the recursive work.

`karatsuba` can be modeled with the following recurrence relation:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + 2A(n/2) + A(n) + S(n)
```
where `A(n)` represents `add` and `S(n)` represents `sub`. First, we will analyze the non-recursive bit:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + f(n)
  where f(n) = 2A(n/2) + A(n) + S(n)
  and   A(n) = Θ(n)
  and   S(n) = Θ(n)
therefore f(n) = Θ(n)
```
Using the [Master theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_theorem), we state the following:
```
T(n) = 3*T(n/2) + f(n)
  a = 3
  b = 2
```
If there exists `c` such that `f(n) = O(n^c)` where `c < log_b(a)`, then `T(n) = Θ(n^log_b(a))`
```
Given f(n) = Θ(n), choose c = 1
Then, f(n) = O(n)
  where 1 < log_2(3)
therefore T(n) = Θ(n^log_2(3))
```

### [Inversions](https://github.com/nikovacevic/algorithms1/blob/master/inversions/inversions.go)

`Count` returns the number of inversions in a given array. That is accomplished by piggy-backing on `mergesort`, counting the number of inversions on the merge step, which adds a lower-order factor, thus retaining `mergesort`'s `O(n log n)` time complexity. (See above for that analysis.)
